So finally, we have the G1 garbage collector.
So this garbage collector was introduced in Java 6,
but it wasn't officially supported until Java 7.
It's a very different beast to the other garbage collectors.
This is something called a compacting collector.
And this plans a replacement for the concurrent mark and sweep collector.
The G1 collector is meant for server applications.
It's meant for applications that are run on multi‑processor
machines with large amounts of memory.
And this works very differently to the other collectors we've seen.
Instead of simply having an Eden region and a tenured region,
a young memory and old memory,
we now break the entire memory space down into regions. The
memory is allocated across those regions.
It still has the concept of Eden, survivor, and tenured spaces,
but this concept is managed very differently by the G1 collector.
So the G1 collector brakes memory down into regions.
And as we can see here,
we still have the content of an Eden space shown in green here,
a survivor space shown in blue color, and an old space shown in orange.
These spaces are using the same way as previously. So the new memory is
allocated into the Eden space. After the minor GC runs, that memory is
moved into survivor space, and the old objects are promoted into the old
space. For the G1 collector, this is called evacuation. So objects
evacuated are moved between these regions, so moved from Eden to
survivor, Eden to old, survivor to old, and eventually discarded altogether.
So here, for example,
we have some memory allocated into Eden space and some memory in old space.
When a GC runs on the young generation,
then the memory in the Eden space is collected and gathered
together into a region that's designated as a survivor region.
For the old GC, a similar idea.
Again, we have memory in Eden space and memory in old space.
When a major collection is done,
so it collects memory in old space, that memory is discarded
altogether. So we leave the Eden space alone in this case, and we've discarded the unused old space regions.